# Introduction

## About this Workshop

In this Workshop, we show how to write and optimize queries over data that contain
nested arrays. We do so via a set of example queries and indexes over a table that
models the users of an  TV streaming service.

In addition to presenting these examples in SQL, a java application program is also
provided that creates the “users” table, populates it with some sample rows, creates
some indexes and executes the queries displaying their results.

_Estimated Time:_ 30 Minutes

### About NoSQL database
Modern application developers have many choices when faced with deciding when and
how to persist a piece of data. In recent years, NoSQL databases have become
increasingly popular and are now seen as one of the necessary tools every
application developer must have at their disposal. While 'tried and true' relational
databases are great at solving classic application problems like data normalization,
strict consistency, and arbitrarily complex queries to access that data, NoSQL
databases take a different approach.

Many of the recent applications have been designed to personalize the user
experience to the individual, ingest huge volumes of machine generated data, deliver
blazingly fast, crisp user interface experiences, and deliver these experiences to
large populations of concurrent users. In addition, these applications must always
be operational, with zero down-time, and with zero tolerance for failure. The
approach taken by Oracle NoSQL Database is to offer extreme availability and
exceptionally predictable, single digit millisecond response times to simple queries
at scale. The Oracle NoSQL Database Cloud Service is designed from the ground up for
high availability, predictably fast responses, resiliency to failure, all while
operating at extreme scale. Largely, this is due to Oracle NoSQL Database’s shared
nothing, replicated, horizontal scale-out architecture. Also, by using the Oracle
NoSQL Database Cloud Service, Oracle manages the scale out, monitoring, tuning, and
hardware/software maintenance.

As a developer, you can connect to Oracle NoSQL Database and work with NoSQL tables
using the NoSQL SDKs available in many languages. A NoSQL table is an unordered
collection of record items, all of which have the same record type.
We call this record type the table schema



### Objectives

In this workshop you will:
  * Set up your environment
  * Create a table and indexes
  * Execute queries against NoSQL tables
  * Write SQL queries to solve business problems

### Prerequisites

This workshop assumes you have:
  * Programming knowledge in Java


## Learn More

* [Oracle NoSQL Database Cloud Service page](https://www.oracle.com/database/nosql-cloud.html)

## Acknowledgements
* **Author** - Markos Zaharioudakis, Software Architect, NoSQL Product Development - Dario Vega, Product Manager, NoSQL Product Management
* **Last Updated By/Date** - Dario Vega, Product Manager, NoSQL Product Management June 2022
